.TH depothelper 1 ""
.SH NAME

depothelper \- List, download, install or uninstall HP-UX archive package and dependency depots easily

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B depothelper
.RB [ -?|-h ]
.RB [ -a\ architecture ]
.RB [ -b\ bitness ]
.RB [ -c\ cache_directory ]
.RB [ -e\ expiry_days ]
.RB [ -f ]
.RB [ -i ]
.RB [ -l\ [ package[-version]\ [package[-version]...] ]
.RB [ -n ]
.RB [ -o\ os_version ]
.RB [ -p\ ftp_proxy_host:ftp_proxy_port ]
.RB [ -r ]
.RB [ -u ]
.RB package[-version]\ [package[-version]...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I depothelper
assists in the listing, download, installation and uninstallation
of package depots and their
dependencies from the HP-UX archive. Anything downloaded will be cached
(for 3 months by default) and the cached version will be used in preference for
future runs. Similarly, depothelper will skip installing packages if they
are already installed, although the download cache and installation skip
can be bypassed if the -f option is supplied.
.PP
If depothelper is run on a machine with no direct internet connection,
then the -p option can specify an FTP proxy host and port, although be
aware that this should be a "true" FTP proxy (e.g. ftpproxy) and not
just Squid handling ftp://-style requests.
.PP
Multiple packages, with or without their version numbers, can be specified
on the command line. In this case, all dependencies of all specified packages
are cumulatively calculated, downloaded and installed via swinstall first,
followed by the specified packages. The -u option will do the reverse of this
(i.e. uninstall the parents specified using swremove and then uninstall
their dependencies, if possible).
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are recognised:
.PP
.RS
.TP
.B  \-? or \-h
Display a syntax usage message.
.TP
.B  \-a architecture
By default, depothelper will assume that downloaded depots will be for the same
architecture as the machine on which it is run. If this needs to be overridden,
"hppa" (PA-RISC) or "ia64" (Itanium 2) can be specified as the preferred
architecture. If a different architecture from the machine it is run on is
specified, depothelper will also switch on the -n option (no installation)
automatically.
.TP
.B  \-b bitness
By default, this release of depothelper will assume that you wish to download
32-bit binary depots. You can change this "bitness" by specifying 32 or 64,
but note that only the Itanium HP-UX 11.31 platform will have 64-bit
binary depots - all PA-RISC platforms will have 32-bit binary depots only.
A later release of depothelper is likely to change the default to be 64-bit
on the Itanium HP-UX 11.31 platform and, after 31st August 2018, will no
longer support Itanium 32-bit binary depot downloads.
.TP
.B  \-c cache_directory
depothelper caches downloaded files in the /usr/local/lib/depothelper directory
by default. Use this -c option to override the cache directory setting.
.TP
.B  \-e expiry_days
Downloaded depots are usually stored for 93 days (3 months) before being
deleted. This can be overridden with the -e option and specifying "-e 0" will
therefore effectively disable the cache.
.TP
.B  \-f
depothelper normally will not download any depot that is cached or install any
depot that's already installed. However, if -f is supplied, it will always
download all depots and install them all, regardless of the state of the
cache or the depots already installed.
.TP
.B  \-l [package[-version]...]
If just the -l option is supplied, depothelper will display a list of
all installed packages and their dependencies. If one or more packages are
specified with -l, then those packages and their dependencies will be
listed, regardless as to whether they are installed or not.
.TP
.B  \-n
Specifying this option will skip the installation of depots i.e. they will
be downloaded if necessary, but not installed. This is useful if one
HP-UX box needs to be used to download packages to install another HP-UX
box (use -a and -o to specify the architecture/OS of the other box if
it's different). Tip: Make the cache directory available via NFS to
other machines. That way, when one machine downloads the depots with
"depothelper -n", the other(s) can install them later on with
"depothelper" as well.
If -n and -u are both specified, then a list
of depots to be uninstalled will be shown instead of uninstalling them.
.TP
.B \-o os_version
By default, depothelper will assume that downloaded depots will be for the same
OS version as the machine on which it is run. If this needs to be overridden,
11.11, 11.23 or 11.31 can be specified as the preferred OS version.
If a different OS version from the machine it is run on is
specified, depothelper will also switch on the -n option (no installation)
automatically.
.TP
.B  \-p ftp_proxy_host:ftp_proxy_port
If the machine depothelper is run on doesn't have a direct internet connection,
then an FTP proxy can be used to download depots. This is specified as
as an FTP proxy server's host and port, separated by a colin. Please note
that this should be a "true" FTP proxy server (e.g. ftpproxy)
and not just Squid handling ftp://-style requests. 
.TP
.B  \-r
Any depot that is successfully installed will have its equivalent cache file
deleted as well if this option is specified.
.TP
.B  \-u
Using this option will attempt to uninstall the specified packages using
swremove and, if possible, uninstall their dependencies too. The parent
packages specified on the command line will be uninstalled first
and then any dependencies which have none of their parents still installed
will be uninstalled afterwards.
If -n and -u are both specified, then a list
of depots to be uninstalled will be shown instead of uninstalling them.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Successful execution of depothelper returns 0, but it fails it will return
a value of 1, with an appropriate error message sent to stderr.
.SH WARNINGS
There may be a bug with the "swlist" command when specified with no options
on the Itanium 11.23 platform (yes, even with PHCO_38149 installed) - it
seems to fail to list all the archive depots installed and this in turn may
cause unnecessary re-installation of some depots on that platform when
depothelper is run. This doesn't happen on any of the other platforms
that depothelper supports.
.PP
depothelper only currently runs on HP-UX i.e. you can't use, say, Linux to
download and cache depots with it. This may change in a future release.
.SH AUTHOR
Richard K. Lloyd	<richard.lloyd@connectinternetsolutions.com>
